[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hey there, Polycasters.
Rob here.
Welcome back to the show.
So it's been a little
while since we last talked.
In the previous
episode, we started off
a series using carbon-route
to build an application.
And actually, since
we did that episode,
the Polymer team has renamed
that element to app-route.
So we're going to be picking
up where we left off last time.
This time, though,
we'll be using
app-route to continue
working on our blog.
And what we're going
to do is make sure
that we can lazy load
content onto this blog,
and that we can also manage
the flash of unstyled content
that we see when we switch
between pages on a slower
connection.
So to grok what I'm
talking about here,
let's switch over to the laptop.
And you'll see that I've
got the blog as we left it
last time showing here.
And I'm going to just go
over to the Network panel,
and I will click
this tab right here.
And this will let me actually
throttle my connection down.
Let me zoom in on this a little
bit so it's easier to see.
So I'll go to the Network tab.
I will go right over here
where it says throttling.
And we can set our connection
to something like regular 3G.
So this is what someone on a
typical cell phone connection
is going to experience when
they're trying to use our site.
So maybe I go and I click
on the Film section.
And maybe I go and click
on one of these posts.
And I go back to
the Art section.
And you see how there
was a moment where
we saw a flash of
the old Film section
when we switched
to the Art section?
That's the thing that I
want to address today.
I want to deal with that
flash of unstyled content,
make sure that when our users
are using our application,
the only thing
that they're seeing
is the relevant page and
something that's really fresh
and up to date.
So to do that, we're going to
switch over to our code editor.
And this is where we left
the project last time.
And I've already gone ahead
and renamed and downloaded
our app route, renamed it
throughout our project.
So we don't have to
do anything there.
Any place you see carbon
route in the old project,
we can just update
that to app route.
The API and everything is still
essentially the same, just
a small name change.
So thankfully, we don't have
to do a lot of work there.
Now, one thing that
we do need to do,
which I noticed in
the previous episode,
is I made a little mistake
in this blog app element.
So if you see down here when
we set up our Iron Selector
menu, in the previous episode,
I was passing category data
as this two-way
binding, like this.
And while this is cool and
this approach did actually
work, what was happening
was it was creating
this weird situation where when
you clicked on this binding,
because it was a two-way
binding, what happened
was first it would look down
at this data page element,
and it would say,
oh, you're trying
to go to the Film section.
So I'm just going to update
carbon location to /film.
Then it would see
that, well, actually,
we clicked on an anchor, so
we want to go to /film/list.
And it would say, OK, cool.
I'll update it to /film/list.
Now, what would happen then is
we would change the URL twice
really, really fast,
so fast that no one
would notice if they were
just looking at the site.
But if you Hit the Back button,
it would go back to /film.
We don't actually
have a Film page,
so everything would just break.
So the fix there
is pretty simple.
What we want to do
is just change this
to a one-way binding.
So basically, the menu
always gets its information
passed down to it
from carbon location.
And if you click on
Anchor or something,
it will dispatch that event.
That will go back up through
carbon location, back down
to our elements.
So it's this nice, one-way
loop, and that solves that bug.
Now, the next
thing we want to do
is we want to tackle that funky,
weird Flash [INAUDIBLE] styled
content.
And there's two things
that are going on here.
The first is I'm loading
new JSON for the page,
so our text is going to swap.
And the second is we're
loading new paths for images.
Ad those actually have to
go out and fetch the images
and redownload them.
So I want to tackle each of
these problems individually.
I'll start with what
to do so we don't
display stale or outdated text.
And my thinking
here is I'm probably
going to display an
overlay over the screen
with a little spinner.
So that way, the user
doesn't see a weird swaparoo
with our headings.
They just see a spinner page.
And then when that
content is finally ready,
it just reveals the new heading
and the new paragraph content.
So to do that, I'll go over
to this Blog page's element.
And I'm going to go
ahead and drop in a div.
I'm going to call this overlay.
And inside of here, I will
drop in a paper spinner.
And I'll just leave it
with this active attribute.
And I need to go up to the
top and make sure that I
have imported paper spinner.
So far, so good there.
And then I'm going
to go to my overlay,
and I want to give
it some CSS style
so it's actually full screen.
So I'm going to drop
in a little bit of CSS.
I've already got the CSS
saved, because I'm totally
cheating here.
And I'm going to boost
this up a little bit so you
can read it a bit easier.
So here, I am positioning
the overlay so it's absolute.
Top, left, right,
and bottom are all 0,
so it's actually
going to stretch
to fill the entire screen.
I'm setting it to display
flex and setting flex
direction to column
and align items
and justify content
to center, center.
And that basically means
that paper spinner trial
that I added there
is going to be
vertically and
horizontally centered right
in the middle of the screen.
And finally, I'll set the
background to an opaque white
so it hides whatever page
content is behind it.
So we can actually just
verify that this is working.
I can go back over to the
blog that I was working on.
I can probably go ahead
and close the dev tools
and refresh the page.
So now we're just seeing that
overlay and that spinner.
It's blocking all
of the page content,
so I at least know
that that is working.
But I only want this to display
when we have a page that
is in a loading state.
So what I'll do next is I'll
go into my list page element.
Remember, list page
is the one that
lists all of our
individual blog posts.
And I'm going to give
it a loading property.
So down here in
its properties, we
have active for when the page
gets swapped to by our route.
But it could still
be in a loading state
then, so we'll add
a loading property.
This is also going
to be a Boolean.
The value is going
to default to False.
And I'm going to set
it to notify true,
because I'm going to need to
have the outside world listen
to this as well.
So next, I'll go up to
my Iron Ajax element.
Now, this is the one that's
loading all of our blog post
data for this page.
And it actually has
already inside of it--
Iron Ajax has a
loading property.
So here, I can just
bind my loading property
to its loading property.
So that's pretty nice.
So now this page can
tell the outside world
when it's loading.
And really, what
it's doing is it's
telling the outside world
when Iron Ajax is loading.
So back in Blog Pages, which
is the common parent of all
these guys, I will add a
property or an attribute here.
So I'll listen for this
dude's loading property.
And I'm going to call
my attribute-- just
so I can differentiate
them a little bit,
I'll call it Is Loading.
So I can do that here.
Now, down in my overlay,
what I'm going to do
is I'm going to bind
the state of the overlay
to that loading property.
So we'll say, OK, we'll use
the HTML hidden attribute.
I use the dollar sign
binding so I can bind
right to the attribute itself.
And we'll say that--
this is one of those fun
double negative things-- so
we'll say when is loading
is false, hidden should be true.
So when is loading is
false, hide the overlay.
When we are not loading,
hide the overlay.
This is one of those
things where you've
go think about it for a second.
And in the active
state of our spinner,
we're actually going
to do the reverse.
We're going to say, OK,
well, if it's loading,
then we do want the
spinner to be active.
So that means now as we switch
back and forth between the list
page, we should see that
overlay for just a second.
And when all that content
comes in from Iron Ajax,
it should hide itself.
I'm going to go
ahead and actually do
the exact same thing
for my Post page.
So I'll give it a
loading property as well.
Boolean defaults to false.
And we want to
notify true, so we
can bind to And we will
also bind it to the loading
property of Iron Ajax.
And now we can
duplicate that work
that we did for those
pages over in Post page.
At this point,
you may be saying,
these pages, the
signature of them
is looking very, very
similar in our markup.
So it might be a good
time to consider perhaps
rolling some of those common
behaviors into behavior,
I should say-- so
actually sharing
that functionality
between the elements
instead of duplicating
the code in both places.
So that's something
that we might
do in a future episode
to tidy things up a bit.
But for new, let's just
verify that this works.
So I'm going to switch
back over to my browser.
And we'll refresh the page,
zoom out a little bit.
So we're pretty zoomed in there.
And what I can do is because
this content is going
to load in really fast
because I have it local,
I'll go back to
my Network panel,
and I'll throttle the
connection way down.
So I'm going to set it to GPRS.
And now when I click on Film,
I should see that loading state
for just a second.
Now, you notice that my image
still did that weird swaparoo
thing, but we're not seeing any
stale text when we go and click
on these items.
One thing that does
happen, though,
when we switch between
these is we can actually
still scroll the page while
that overlay is displayed.
And that's kind of a bummer.
We definitely don't want that.
So I'm going to add one more
little trick to Blog Pages.
I'm going to add an
observer for is loading.
So my observers array.
Add some more space down here.
So I'll create an
observer for-- we'll
say we're going to lock scroll
whenever is loading changes.
And lock scroll will
just be a method
that I define where we
say, all right, what
is the state of is loading?
And if is loading
is true, then--
we're actually
going to cheat here.
We'll reach outside
of ourselves.
We'll go to
document.body and set
the overflow style to hidden
if is loading is true.
And what that's going
to do is chop off
the page, and that way, the user
won't be able to scroll and see
that content underneath there.
Otherwise, if is
loading is false,
then we'll set document body
style overflow to visible,
I think, is the correct value.
I'll double check.
And we'll swap back over
and bust out our dev tools
so we can throttle
this thing again.
So refresh the page.
So far, so good.
We'll go to our Network panel.
We'll set Throttling to GPRS.
And we'll click on
the Film section.
You notice my scroll
bar even goes away.
So I can tell I can't scroll
or anything until that content
actually has loaded in.
OK, cool.
So we handled the
issue of the text
being stale and that
loading in, but now
we still have these images.
And this is a really
tricky problem,
because when our data
loads, all it's looting
is a path to a new image,
but we still have to go
make that HTTP request
to fetch that content.
And that could take a
super long time to load.
But I don't want my
user to be waiting
when they could be reading
the text of the article
while they still wait
on that image to load.
So we could do a
little tradeoff there,
where we give them the
text of the article,
but maybe we serve
a downgraded image.
So something loads
faster, and then
we wait and upgrade that image
as the nicer version loads in.
So let me do that.
And this is a cool trick that I
discovered recently by looking
at a project the Polymer
team did called Shop,
which you can find over at
shop.Polymer-project.org.
And if you go to
the site, you'll
notice that when we
first boot up the page,
it does this fade in
effect on this image.
You see a low res version,
and then it just fades in.
And what the Polymer
team is actually doing
is they're taking
the original image,
and then they're
downsizing it to 1%,
so you get something
that's like 200 bytes,
and then in CSS,
scaling that back up
to the full size of the image.
And then we're loading
the higher res version,
and we just cross fade
them when the higher res
version loads in.
So this gives a perceived
performance improvement.
The user can access our
content a lot faster,
but they're not waiting
around on a super big image.
So we can do that with our site.
What I'm going to do
is over in Finder,
I will find the blog that
I've been working on here.
Blog, Images.
And I've already gone ahead
and downsampled these images,
but I'll walk you through
the process of doing it.
So we'll take this photo
of a lion that we've got.
So we've got Photoshop here.
We'll drop in this
image of a lion.
Now, this is a really
high res image.
It's like 900 by
512, so pretty beefy.
And I'm going to go to the
Image Panel Property, whatever
this thing is called, and
set image size to percent,
and we'll set it to 1%.
So that brings it
down to 9 by 5 pixels.
And if we super zoom in, you
can see this thing is just
a bunch of random squares now.
But it roughly approximates
our final image.
And then we can
export that for web.
And I usually use a
medium quality setting.
And I'm going to give
it a different name.
So I'll call it Picture
1 Low Res or something.
Now, the next thing
I'm going to do
is take that low res
image and base 64
encode it into a string.
So that way, I can
load that string along
with all of the text
content from my article.
Now, there's a number
of ways that you
can base 64 encode an image.
You can do it from
the command line,
I believe, with the base
64 for command in Unix.
Or there's a bunch
of websites out there
where you just look
up base 64 image,
and you can upload an
image, and it'll give you
back a big string of text.
And that's one technique
that I used in this case,
because I'm lazy.
So I've already gone
ahead and base 64
encoded all these images.
I have all the strings for them.
And I'll go over to
the data that I'm
loading in my application,
open up the list page.
And along with the title
and the slug and the image
and the alt tag an
everything, I've
got this image place
holder value now.
And inside of there, I just
have this humongous base
64-encoded string.
Well, it's not that humongous.
It's like 200, 300 bytes
or something, which
is really actually quite tiny.
And this is what I'm
going to actually load
into my application.
Now, I can't just use a regular
image tag to load this thing.
I need to use a special element.
And the Polymer team has
just such an element.
So if I go to the
Polymer catalog--
Polymer Iron Image is the name.
So we can check this out on
the Polymer element catalog.
This thing is awesome.
And what it will let us
do is load a placeholder
while it waits on the higher
res version to come down.
So I'm going to just grab--
there's a snippet of code
here that I want.
Here we go.
I'm going to grab
this snippet of code,
and I can go back
to my list page
and find this image tag
that I was using previously.
I'm going to replace
it with an iron image.
So let's see.
So we'll set width to
900 pixels, height 512.
You could also do
this in CSS if you
wanted to have media query
breakpoints to change
the size of the image.
I'm working quick
and dirty here,
so I'll just do it in line.
For the placeholder, if you
go back and look at our data,
we called that value
image placeholder.
So I'll grab that.
We can use that in our binding.
So image per item, because we're
in a dom-repeat, item image
placeholder.
Size and cover--
yeah, that looks good.
I totally want to do that.
Preload.
There is a fade effect
that Iron Image gives us
if we go and look at their docs.
This is kind of a nice thing.
So there's a Fade attribute
we can set on this guy.
So I'll say preload fade.
The source is going
to be item.image.
And then we can add
an alt attribute, too,
which is important
for accessibility.
So we'll say Alt equals-- I
believe it item.image_alt.
So this is going to go out.
It's going to quickly
display a placeholder
and then fetch the
higher res version
and fade that up
when it is loaded.
I'm also going to add the same
chunk of code over to our--
what is it-- our Post page.
So our Post page, we
got an image here.
Replace that with Iron Images.
And here we called
it Post Content,
so I just need to
update wherever
it says item Post Content.
Hide that old image.
OK.
Let's give it a shot.
So I've turned off throttling.
I'm going to refresh the page.
And you'll actually even
see-- even though we're
on a fast connection,
we'll actually
see some of that
crossfade happening.
Because it's able to load
that placeholder super,
super, super fast,
because it's so tiny.
But this makes a huge
difference if you're
on a slower connection.
So again, we'll
go to the network.
Let's turn throttling on now.
We'll set it to regular 3G.
And now let's switch
to a different page.
So we'll go from Art to Film.
OK, cool.
So we didn't see
any stale images,
and we were able to get
that nice fade-in effect
while we were waiting on
these other images to load.
If we go to a really slow
connection, like GPRS
here, what you'll see
is as I go and maybe
click on one of
these posts, we see
the spinner for just a second.
Then we see the page
content, though,
and then that image fades up.
And this is really, really nice.
Let's actually do a
super hard refresh
to clear our cache so you can
really see this in action.
OK.
So let's say I hit this page
for the very first time.
I'm going to switch it to GPRS.
Now I'm super super,
super slow phone.
I'm going to switch
to the Film section.
And my text loads
in super quick.
And these images, they're
rolling in along after it.
But I don't have to
wait for those images
to be able to actually
start reading the page
and interacting with
the page content.
So the final product is
just super, super nice,
and it's very, very
responsive and very
friendly to folks who might
be on slower cell connections.
So that about
covers it for today.
We've built an amazing site
that is super quick on mobile
using some of the fancier new
app routing and Iron Image
trickery that the Polymer
team has given us.
Now, if you haven't
done so, please
go check out some of the talks
that the Polymer team recorded
at I/O. These are all up
and available on the Chrome
Developer's YouTube channel.
And if you have any
questions for me,
you leave them in the
comments down below,
or you can always hit me up on a
social network of your choosing
at hashtag #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]